Lecture 13:-

1) we have selected Oregon region because many new services available there.
2) Create first key pair pem file and downloaded/placed at itversity lab location "/home/dkothari/aws_practice/Oregon_First.pem"
    i) after downloading pem file, I used vi editor to copy and paste content of pem file to itveristy lab location.
3) Create first default instance with all default settings.
4) Need to connect to this instance using public IP address and private Key pair file (Oregon_First.pem)
    i) not able to connect to EC2 instances using Private IP address without VPN machines.
5) changed permission of the file --> chmod 400 Oregon_First.pem

6) Below is the command to connect to EC2 instances using ssh.
  ssh -i "/home/dkothari/aws_practice/Oregon_First.pem" ec2-user@54.191.225.94
  
7) Firwall -- Security groups 
    Firwall allows only authenticate users. 
    
8) Two Device type for instances
  i) Instance stores: Its a temporary block storage. Data will be removed from hard disk once you stop instances.
  ii) EBS Portal HardDisk: EBS (Elastic Block Storage).
    Its a permanent block storage, means even if we start or stop instances the data in the hard disk will not be lost.
    Its High avalability and scalability is the key, dynamic increase in capacity and performance and replicate in availability zone.
    
9) Compute != Storage
    EC2 --> RAM and CPU
    AWS EC2 generally regarded as compute based service and compute generally refer to Memory and CPU.
    EC2 and EBS are two seperate services in AWS.

10) ELB (Elastic Load Balancer) -->
  This automatically allows incoming traffic to distribute across multiple instances.
  It can handle rapid change in network traffic pattern
  
11) Scaling to Traffic pattern -->
    Define rule based on which AWS will automatically allocate server instances to the traffic.

12) AWS S3 --> Unlimited Storage, S3 (Simple Storage Service)
    few of the features that comes by default with AWS S3 -->
    Versioning, Encryption, Logging, Transfer Acceleration, Cross Region Replication

Two important Terminologies of S3:
Buckets --> Its like folder where data resides. Bucket name should be unique, as it shared across all users.
Objects --> its just files like image files, or text files.


13) S3 storage classes: mostly these differce in pricing, availability, durability, performance
General Purpose --> Standard S3
Infrequent Access --> Standard S3 IA
RRS --> Reduce Redundency Storage 
Archive --> Glaciar (mostly used ofr long time back-up). User can't directly upload files to this storage. User has to first upload file in any of the above 3 storage classes and then move to Archive or Glacier storage class.

14) S3 Life cycle policies:
    in this we create lifecycle events -->
    i) like after 90 days move files from Standard S3 to Standard IA and after 365 days move to Glcier.
15) Databases:
16) AWS RDS --> Relational Database Service, set alarms and automatically react to changes in AWS resources.

17) CloudWatch --> Monitor all the time (Cloud Resources and Applications)
Also, to collect and monitor logs. 

18) SNS (Simple Notification Services) --> 
    This is fully managed messaging and mobile notification service.

19) Domain Name System (DNS) --> The backbone of Internet
It basically converts domain names to IP address. Every domain in associated with IP addresses.
User supply domain name and DNS apply IP addresses on internet.

20) Route53 --> DNS of AWS
    i) Managed Approach --> managed by service provider
    ii) Unmanaged Approach --> managed by application team itself.

21) Serverless Computing -->
        AWS Lamda --> Event Driven Service --> whenever a configured event occurs, the lamda function runs.
            Users only gets charged based on the compute time Lamda function consumed.
       Example of AWS Lamda function --> when a user uploads a video, Lamda function runs and compress the video to decrese the size.             This lamda function runs on the event basis with the event of uploading video.
       
22) Reverse Proxy --> Its NGINX time
    protect server details and attacks to servers.
    optimized content by compressing, provide great caching functionality
    can act as SSL terminating policy.

23) Content Delivery Network --> CDN
    using this service we can response to few request that are directly related to content like (images, file like terms and conditions,
    etc.... which are not required specific authentication for our server.
    These services manages all firewall security part and deliver our content with minimal latency.
    
24) Fundamentals of pricing:
Pay as you go -->
Pay less when you reserve -->
pay even less when AWS grows

25) AWS support plans -->
Basic
Developer
Business
Enterprise

26) Total cost of ownership -->
Business Capacity,
Capacity planning,
Operation challanges

Datacenter vs AWS model:
pay as you go model
stop guessing by capacity
lower overall cost
ability and agility to scale
go global in minutes

Need to understand what is IOPs




    
  
    
    
  
